---
name: adopt-context-docs
description: Adopt Context Docs in a new or existing project and add its ongoing maintenance rule to the project AGENTS.md. Use for project setup or adoption requests; use context-docs directly for routine maintenance or audits.
---

# Adopt Context Docs

Apply the sibling [context-docs skill](../context-docs/SKILL.md)
to the current project and establish ongoing use. Read that skill first; it owns
the maintenance method. If unavailable, report the missing dependency rather than
silently inventing a substitute.

Read the project's instructions and entry points. Confirm the target from the
workspace; ask only when the intended project is ambiguous. Initialize missing
context or maintain existing documents using the skill. Preserve useful layouts,
approved decisions, rationale, source evidence, unresolved work and concurrent edits.
Do not manufacture missing intent or populate empty templates merely for completeness.

Add or update a concise rule in the project's applicable AGENTS.md, merging with
existing guidance rather than duplicating it. Adapt this wording to local terms:

> Use $context-docs for documentation audits and after meaningful changes to
> project facts, decisions, procedures, blockers or next actions. Read the skill
> before maintenance. Preserve project rules, document roles and decision status.
> Update affected canonical sections and check the diff, links and information
> preservation. Keep audit-only requests read-only; make no bookkeeping edits
> when nothing durable changed.

Reuse the installed skills; do not create duplicate packages or change global
instructions. If the user requests audit-only, report adoption
recommendations without editing AGENTS.md or documents. Existing equivalent setup
may require no changes. This workflow adds no authority to publish, deploy or
schedule work; follow the project's existing authorization.

Review the resulting diff, affected links and information preservation before
recording adoption. Once the setup is complete, add or reuse one small marker beside
the maintenance rule in AGENTS.md:

```text
Method: context-docs
Adopted: YYYY-MM-DD
Entry point: path/to/context.md
```

Use the actual context entry point, relative to that AGENTS.md; a README section
is also valid. For new adoption, use the current date. Preserve an existing
adoption date and equivalent marker rather than adding another. When adding a
marker to previously adopted guidance, use a supported original date or `unknown`
if none is recorded; do not invent the history. Update the entry point only when
its canonical location changes. Do not mark incomplete setup as adopted or add a
marker during an audit-only request. Existing projects without markers may still
follow the method; the marker records adoption, not document accuracy or freshness.

Review the marker and its target along with the final diff. Report changes,
verification and unresolved questions, including whether ongoing guidance and
the marker were added, reused or remain incomplete.
